Welcome to Jeremy’s IT Lab.
This is a complete course for the CCNA, including
everything you need to pass the exam, all
100% free.
Make sure you stay tuned till the end of the
video for the quiz to test your knowledge
of the material in this video.
Also, remember to download and use the Anki
flashcards with the link in the description,
which will help you very much in your studies.
Let’s get started.
This is the fifth lesson, and now we’re
going to get more into the details of how
data travels through a network.
This time we’ll focus on Ethernet LAN switching.
So, if we look at this simple network consisting
of a few PCs, a switch, and a router, connected
to the Internet, today we’ll be looking
at how data moves around between the switches
and the end hosts connected to them, and to
their router.
How data is sent from the router to other
networks will be a topic for another video,
but let’s start small.
First let’s review.
This is a slide from Day 3’s video of describing
the physical layer of the OSI model.
The physical layer defines physical characteristics
of the medium used to transfer data between
devices.
For example, voltage levels, maximum transmission
distances (like Ethernet UTP cables’ 100
meter limit), physical connectors, cable specifications,
etc.
Digital bits are converted into electrical
(for wired connections) or radio (for wireless
connections) signals.
All of the information in Day 2’s video
(cables, pin layouts, etc.) is related to
the Physical Layer.
So, we’ve covered a good amount about the
physical layer, learning about copper UTP
cables, fiber-optic cables, RJ45 connectors,
etc.
Let’s also review this slide about Layer
2, the data link layer, from Day 3’s video.
Layer 2 provides node-to-node connectivity
and data transfer, for example PC to switch, or
switch to router, or router to router, etc.
It defines how data is formatted for transmission
over a physical medium (for example, copper
UTP cables).
IT detects and possibly corrects Physical Layer
errors.
It uses Layer 2 addressing, which is separate from Layer
3 addressing.
Remember, IP addresses are Layer 3 addresses, not Layer 2.
Switches operate at Layer 2.
So, in this video we’ll be talking about
Ethernet LAN switching, and Ethernet involves
Layer 1 and Layer 2 of the OSI model.
Since we’ve already covered the Layer 1
Ethernet standards like UTP cables, this video
will be about Layer 2.
Then, as we continue with this series, we’ll
move up the layers of the OSI model, until
you get a complete image of how data is sent
and received over networks.
Now, let’s talk about what a LAN, or Local
Area Network is.
There are different ways of defining a LAN,
and your understanding of a LAN will become
more complete as you learn more and more about
networking.
But basically, it’s a network contained within
a relatively small area, like an office floor,
or your home network.
Routers are used to connect separate LANs.
Looking at this diagram, how many LANs do
you think there are?
Well, by the definition I’m using, this
green network, consisting of three PCs, one
switch, and the router interface they are
connected to, is one VLAN.
This red network is also one LAN.
Although there are two switches, it is all
one LAN.
Switches do not separate LANs, but adding
more switches can be used to expand an existing
LAN.
So these red devices are part of one large
Now, what do you think about the blue devices?
There’s the same devices as in the red network,
but instead of the switches being connected
to each other, they are connected to different
router interfaces.
So, that means that they are two separate
LANs. one for this switch, it’s end hosts,
and their router interface, and one for this
switch, it’s end hosts, and the router interface
they connect to.
So, in this lesson we’ll look at how traffic
is sent and received within LANs like these,
for example this PC in LAN 2 to another PC
in LAN 2.
But, we’ll leave the topic of sending data
between LANs for a later video.
Here’s one more bit of review.
This shows the encapsulation process as data
is prepared to be sent over a network.
At the top, the data prepared by the upper
layers of the OSI model is simply called data.
A layer 4 header is added, and this combination
of data and layer 4 header is called a segment.
A layer 3 header is added to the segment,
and it is now called a packet.
Finally, a Layer 2 header and trailer are
added to the packet, and it becomes a frame.
Once again, these different stages of preparing
data to be forwarded are called ‘protocol
data units, or PDUs.  For example, the Layer 2 PDU is a frame.
Today we’re going to focus on how switches
receive and forward frames, specifically Ethernet
frames, since it’s the Layer 2 protocol
used in virtually every LAN in existence today.
Let’s take a look at the actual contents
of this Ethernet header and trailer.
So, here’s an Ethernet frame, encapsulating
the packet with a header and trailer.
Note that I put the header on the left and
the trailer on the right, opposite of the
previous slide.
Let’s look at the header.
Don’t worry, I’ll cover these in more
detail, but here’s a quick rundown.
There are five fields in the header.
First, the preamble and SFD, which means start
frame delimiter.
These are used for synchronization and to
allow the receiving device to be prepared
to receive the rest of the data in the frame.
Next is the destination, the Layer 2 address
to which the frame is being sent.
Next, there is the source, the Layer 2
address of the device which sent the frame.
The final field in the Ethernet header is
the type.
It indicates the Layer 3 protocol used in
the encapsulated Packet, which is almost always
Internet Protocol, or IP, version 4, or IP
version 6.
However, sometimes this is a length field,
indicating the length of the encapsulated
data, depending on the version of Ethernet.
Now, the Ethernet trailer has only one field.
That’s the FCS, which stands for frame check
sequence.
It’s used by the receiving device to detect any
errors that might have occurred in transmission.
Okay, now let’s take a look at these fields
in more detail, starting with the preamble
and start frame delimiter.
Here are the first two fields, the Preamble
and SFD, which I like to think of as a set.
Let’s look at the preamble first.
It’s 7 bytes long.
How many bits is that?
If you remember, there are 8 bits in 1 byte,
so, 7 times 8 is equal to...
56 bits.
It’s a series of alternating 1s and 0s.
Like this 10101010, which is one byte, seven
times.
The purpose of this is that it allows devices
to synchronize their receiver clocks, to make
sure they’re ready to receive the rest of
the frame and the data inside.
Okay, that’s the preamble, now the SFD.
SFD stands for ‘start frame delimiter’.
It’s length is 1 byte, or 8 bits.
It’s bit pattern is 10101011, similar to
each byte of the preamble but the last bit
is a 1, not a 0.
It indicates the end of the preamble and the
beginning of the rest of the frame.
Now let’s look at the next two fields, the
destination and source fields.
They indicate the devices sending and receiving
the frame, like when you send an email both
the destination and source email addresses
are included in the email, or when you send
a letter in the mail, although that’s getting
less and less common these days.
The addresses used in Ethernet are the destination
and source ‘MAC addresses’.
MAC stands for media access control.
The MAC address is a 6-byte, or 48-bit, address
of the physical device.
This is separate from a logical address like
an IP address, the MAC address is actually
assigned to the device when it is made.
I’ll talk more about MAC addresses in a
few slides, but let’s move on to the remaining
fields of the Ethernet frame.
The last field of the Ethernet header is the
Type or Length field.
It is 2-bytes, or 16-bits, in length.
It can be used to represent either the type
of the encapsulated packet, or the length
of the encapsulated packet.
What do I mean by that?
Well, if the value in the field is 1500 or
less, that means it is indicating the LENGTH of the encapsulated
packet in bytes.
For example, if the value in this field is
1,400, it means that the encapsulated packet
is 1,400 bytes in length.
However, a value of 1,536 or greater in this
field indicates the TYPE of the encapsulated
packet, which is usually internet protocol
version 4 or version 6, and then the length
is determined via other methods.
For example, a value of 0x0800, which is written
in hexadecimal, and is equal to 2048 in decimal.
The 0x in front of 0800 is used to indicate
hexadecimal, by the way.
I’ll talk more about hexadecimal in a few
slides when I talk in detail about MAC addresses.
2048 is greater than 1536, of course, and
its used to identify that the encapsulated
packet is an IPv4 packet.
0x86DD, which is equal to 34525 in decimal,
is used to indicate that the encapsulated
packet is an IPv6 packet.
Okay, so those are all of the fields in an
Ethernet header.
Try to remember the lengths of each field...
The preamble is 7 bytes long, the start frame
delimiter is 1 byte, the destination is 6
bytes, as is the source, as both are MAC addresses,
and the Type, or length, field is 2 bytes.
Now let’s take a brief look at the only
field of the Ethernet trailer, the FCS, or
frame check sequence.
The only field of the Ethernet trailer is
the FCS, which as I mentioned stands for frame
check sequence.
It is 4 bytes, or 32-bits in length.
It’s purpose is to detect corrupted data
by running a ‘CRC’ algorithm over the
received data.
CRC means cyclic redundancy check.
Cyclic refers to something called ‘cyclic
codes', ‘redundancy’ refers to the fact
that these 4 bytes at the end of the message
enlarge the message without adding any new
information, so they are redundant, and check
refers to the fact that is CHECKS, or verifies,
the data for errors.
Don’t worry about the details of CRC
too much, just be aware of the term,
and remember that the Ethernet frame’s Frame
Check Sequence is a Cyclic Redundancy Check.
If you remember that, you should be good for
the CCNA.
Feel free to read around on Wikipedia if you’re
curious to learn more about Cyclic Redundancy
Checks.
Okay, now we know all of the fields of an
Ethernet frame, both the header and the trailer.
Try to recall the length of each field again….
The Preamble is 7 bytes….
The Start-frame delimiter is 1 byte….
The destination is 6 bytes... the source is
6 bytes also... the type, or length, field
is 2 bytes...How about the trailer, what’s
the length of the frame check sequence?
It is 4 bytes.
This brings the total size, including header
and trailer, to 26 bytes.
So, there’s an overview of each field of
an Ethernet frame.
However, the fields I really want to focus
on in this video are the source and destination
MAC address fields.
I mentioned a little bit about MAC addresses,
but let’s dig a little deeper.
So let’s spend a few slides looking into
MAC addresses.
As I mentioned before, a MAC address is a
6-byte, or 48-bit, physical address assigned
to the device when it is made.
This is different than an IP address, which
you assign in the CLI when you configure the
device.
You might also hear the term ‘burned in
address', or BIA, to refer to a MAC address.
This is because the address is ‘burned-in’
to the device as it is made.
The MAC address is globally unique, no two
devices in the world should have the same
MAC address.
Although, there are MAC addresses known as
‘locally-unique’ MAC address, which don’t
have to be globally unique throughout the
world, however in almost all cases MAC addresses are
globally unique.
The first 3 bytes of the MAC address are the
OUI, which stands for organizationally unique
identifier, and it's assigned to the company
making the device.
So Cisco, for example, will have various OUIs
which only Cisco can use, and other makers will
have their own OUIs which only they can use.
The last 3 bytes, the second half of the address,
are unique to the device itself.
MAC addresses are written as a series of 12
hexadecimal characters.
For those of you who aren’t sure what hexadecimal
is, let’s check it out a little bit.
Before explaining hexadecimal, I want to make
sure we all understand how the decimal system
works.
I don’t mean to insult anyone’s intelligence,
I’m sure you all know how to count, but
let’s just review the system so we can compare
it to hexadecimal.
The decimal system uses 10 possible digits,
0,1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8, and 9.
So, you start with 0, then 1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8,
and 9.
This number 9 here represents 9 1s, or 9 times
1.
Then where do you go from here?
You have to add another digit, adding a 10s
column.
You probably look at this number and just
think ‘10’, but really it means 1 value
of 10, and 0 values of 1.
Then 11, is one 1, and 1 1.
Then you increase the ones column to get 12,
13, 14, 15, 16, 17, 18, and 19.
Then you can’t increase the ones column
anymore, so you add 1 to the 10s column to
get 20, which is 2 tens, and 0 ones.
Then 21, 22, etc. all the way to 99.
Now both the 10s column and the 1s column
are maxed out.
To represent higher numbers, you have to add
another column, the 100s column.
100 hundred means 1 value of 100, 0 values
of 10, and 0 values of 1.
Then you follow the same process, to get 101,
102, etc all the way to 999.
Then once again, you have to add another column,
to make 1000.
So, that’s how the decimal system works.
Let’s look at hexadecimal.
While decimal uses 10 possible digits, hexadecimal
uses 16 possible digits.
The first 10 are the same as the decimal system,
0,1,2,3,4,5,6,7,8, and 9.
The other 6 are borrowed from the alphabet,
A, B, C, D, E, and F. Although these are the
same characters as in the alphabet, they represent
numbers here.
So, hexadecimal A is equivalent to 10 in decimal,
B is 11, C is 12, D is 13, E is 14, and F
is 15.
Here’s a chart showing some decimal numbers,
in black, and their hexadecimal equivalents,
in red.
We already saw the hexadecimal numbers up
to F, which is equal to decimal 15.
Notice how the numbers are written after F.
This hexadecimal number looks like 10, but
it isn’t 10.
The second column in hexadecimal represents
16, so this is 1 sixteen, and 0 1s.
So, it’s equivalent to decimal 16.
This number looks like 11, but really it’s
1 16 and 1 1, so it’s equivalent to decimal
17.
hexadecimal 1 2 is decimal 18, hexadecimal
1 3 is decimal 19, hexadecimal 1 4 is decimal
20, hexadecimal 1 5 is decimal 21, hexadecimal
1 6 is decimal 22.
hexadecimal 1 7 is decimal 23, etc.
Hexadecimal then proceeds 1 8, 1 9, 1 A, 1
B, 1 C, etc.
The purpose of all of this is just to give
you an introduction to hexadecimal.
When we cover internet protocol version 6
in a later lesson, we’ll go more in depth.
For now, if you have a general understanding
of what hexadecimal is, that’s good enough.
Let’s move on.
So here’s a simple network, just three PCs
connected to a switch.
Notice the interface names for the switch,
F0/1, F0/2, and F0/3.
F means fastethernet, so these are 100 megabit
per second interfaces.
I’ve also written the MAC address for each
PC.
You’re probably not going to see any MAC
addresses like these, I’ve just simplified
them for this demonstration.
Notice each MAC address is a series of 12
hexadecimal digits, separated by periods.
You may also see periods after every other
digit, so for example PC1’s MAC address
would be AA dot AA dot AA dot 00 dot 00 dot
01.  But I tend to write them after every fourth character.
The OUI, or organizationally unique identifier,
which is the first half of the MAC address,
is AAAAAA for each device, so we know that
these PCs are all from the same maker.
The second half of the MAC address of each
device, however, is different for each PC,
as the second half identifies the device itself.
Now, let’s say PC1 wants to send some data
to PC2.
Due to lack of space I’ve just written an
abbreviated form of the destination and source
MAC addresses here.
By the way, this kind of frame is called a
‘unicast frame’, a frame destined for
a single target, PC2 in this case.
There are other kinds of frames, like broadcast
frames, which we’ll learn as we go along.
But for now, remember this term, unicast.
PC1 sends the frame through it’s network
interface card, which is connected to SW1,
and SW1 receives the frame.
After SW1 receives the frame, it looks at
the source MAC address field of the frame
and then uses that information to LEARN where
PC1 is.
As you can see here, it adds the MAC address
AAAA.AA00.0001 to it’s MAC Address table,
and it associates that MAC address with its F0/1
interface.
This is known as a ‘dynamically learned’
MAC address, or just ‘dynamic MAC address’,
because it wasn’t manually configured on
the switch, the switch learned it itself.
Every switch will keep a MAC address table
like this, and they fill the MAC address table
dynamically by looking at the source MAC address
of frames it receives.
Since SW1 received a frame from source MAC
Address AAAA.AA00.0001 on it’s F0/1 interface,
it knows that I can reach that MAC address
on that interface, and adds it to the MAC
address table.
This is a very important concept, so I’ll
probably repeat it multiple times.
This is how switches dynamically learn where
each device on the network is, by looking
at the source MAC address of the frame.
Now, there is one problem.
The destination of the frame is AAAA.AA00.0002,
but SW1 doesn’t know where that is.
This, by the way, is called an ‘unknown
unicast’ frame, a frame for which the switch
doesn’t have an entry in its MAC Address
table.
Because the switch doesn’t know how to reach
the destination, it has only one option.
That is to FLOOD the frame.
Flood means to forward the frame out of ALL
of its interfaces, except the one it received
the packet on.
So, that would look like this.
SW1 copies the frame and sends it out its
F0/2 and F0/3 interfaces.
It doesn’t send it out of its F0/1 interface,
because that’s the interface it received
the frame on.
So, what happens next?
Well, PC3 ignores the packet, because the
destination MAC address doesn’t match its
own MAC address, it simply drops the packet.
PC2, however, receives the packet, and then
processes it normally, up the OSI stack.
However, unless PC2 sends a reply of some
sort, it stops there.
SW1 never receives a packet from PC2, so it
can’t learn PC2’s MAC address and use
it to populate the MAC address table.
So, let’s say PC1 sends another frame to
PC2.
Once again, it is received by SW1,
and it already knows PC1’s MAC address, so it
doesn’t have to add it to the MAC address
table again.
However, it still doesn’t know where PC2
is, so it once again floods the frame.
PC3 drops the frame, and PC2 receives it
and processes it normally.
Now, let’s say PC2 then wants to send some
data to PC1, maybe a reply to what PC1 sent
to PC2.
Notice the destination and source addresses
of the frame are reversed.
PC2 sends the frame out of its network interface,
and SW1 receives it.
SW1 looks at the source MAC address of the
frame, and then adds it to its MAC address
table, associating it with the F0/2 interface.
This time, however, it doesn’t flood the
frame.
This is known as a KNOWN UNICAST frame, because
the destination is already in its MAC address
table.
Whereas UNKNOWN unicast frames are flooded,
known unicast frames are simply forwarded
to the destination, like this.
And PC1 then processes the frame up the OSI
stack, through the de-encapsulation process
which we learned about in day 3’s video.
One more point about these dynamic MAC addresses.
On Cisco switches, these MAC addresses are
removed from the MAC address table after 5
minutes of inactivity.
So, if PC1 didn’t send any traffic for over
5 minutes, SW1 would remove the MAC address
to clean out the MAC address table.
Of course, if PC1 sent traffic again, SW1
would dynamically learn its MAC address again.
Let’s look at another example, this time
with two switches.
Notice the MAC address table of each switch.
Currently they are empty, so once again we
will see the process of MAC address learning
and flooding.
So, PC1 wants to send some information to
PC3.
The source MAC address of the packet is aaaa.aa00.0001,
and the destination is aaaa.aa00.0003.
So, PC1 sends the frame out of its network
interface and it arrives at SW1.
SW1 learns PC1’s MAC address from the source
address field of the frame, and associates
it with the interface on which it was received,
F0/1.
I’ll just say once more, I’m only writing
a short version of the MAC address due to
the lack of space here, really the frame and
the MAC address table would include the whole
MAC address, of course.
Once again, a MAC address learned in this
way is called a ‘dynamically learned MAC
address, or more often, a ‘dynamic’ mac
address.
Now, SW1 has learned that PC1 can be reached
via it’s F0/1 interface, but it still doesn’t
know where PC3 is.
Do you remember the name for this kind of
frame?
It’s called an ‘unknown unicast frame’.
And what does a switch do with an unknown
unicast frame?
It floods it out all of its ports, except
the one it was received on.
In this case it will flood the frame out of
F0/2 and F0/3, but not F0/1, because it received
the frame on F0/1.
PC2 drops the frame because the destination
MAC Address doesn’t match its own MAC address.
Now, what will SW2 do?
Well, the exact same rules apply.
Just like SW1 did, it uses the source MAC
address field of the frame to dynamically
learn PC1’s MAC address and the interface
it can use to reach PC1.
Note that, unlike on SW1, PC1 isn’t actually
directly connected to the interface SW2 enters in its
own MAC address table.
However, this is the interface which SW2 will
use to reach PC1.
That’s the meaning of the interface in the
MAC address table, it doesn’t mean the device
is directly connected to this interface.
Now, SW2 received a unicast frame, that is
a frame destined for a single device, but
it doesn’t know how to reach that device,
because its not in its MAC address table.
One last time, what is this kind of frame
called?
It’s an unknown unicast frame.
And what does the switch do with it?
It floods it out all interfaces, except the
one it was received on.
So, which interfaces will it send the frame
out of?
Well, it received the frame on F0/3, so it
won’t be flooded out of that interface,
but it will be sent out of all other interfaces,
F0/1 and F0/2 in this case.
PC4 drops the frame because the destination
MAC address doesn’t match its own.
PC3, however, receives the frame, as the destination
MAC address matches its own MAC address.
Let’s say that PC3 is going to send a reply
back to PC1.
Notice the destination and source MAC address
fields of the frame are reversed.
PC3 sends the frame out of its network interface,
and it is received by SW2.
SW2 learns PC3’s MAC address, and enters
the MAC address and the corresponding interface
in its MAC address table.
Just so we’re clear, the switch uses the
SOURCE MAC ADDRESS field to fill its MAC address
table because, if it receives a frame from
that source on the interface, it knows that
it can reach that MAC address via that interface.
So, lets continue.
SW2 already has an entry for the destination
MAC Address, aaaa.aa00.0001, in its MAC address
table, so there is no need to flood the frame.
Instead, it is forwarded normally out of the
corresponding interface in the MAC address
table, which is F0/3.
The frame is received by SW1, which adds an
entry for PC3’s MAC address in its MAC address
table, with the interface F0/3, since that’s
where it received the frame.
Finally, since SW1 already has an entry for
the destination MAC address in its own MAC address
table, SW1 forwards the frame out of the corresponding
interface, and it reaches its destination,
PC1.
Okay, so that was a lot of information.
I was actually planning to cover the Ethernet
LAN switching topics in a single video, but
I’ve decided to split it up into two videos.
So, let’s move on to the quiz for today’s
video, here’s question 1.
Which field of an Ethernet frame provides
receiver clock synchronization?
A, preamble.
B, SFD.
C, Type.
Or D, FCS.
Pause the video to think about your answer.
the answer is A, preamble.
Lets’ check.
The SFD, or Start Frame Delimiter, signifies
the end of the Preamble, it is not used to
provide receiver clock synchronization.
So B, SFD, is incorrect.
The Type field indicates the type of packet
encapsulated within the frame.
So c, Type, is incorrect.
The FCS, or Frame Check Sequence, is used
to detect errors that occurred during transmission.
So d, FCS, is incorrect.
The preamble is a series of 1s and 0s (or 7 bytes
of 10101010) which allows the receiving device
to synchronize its receive clock.
So A, Preamble, is the correct answer.
Let’s go to question 2.
How long is the physical address of a network
device?
A, 32 bytes.
B, 32 bits.
C, 48 bytes.
Or D, 48 bits.
Pause the video to think about your answer.
the answer is D, 48 bits.
Remember, a byte is equal to 8 bits, so 48
bytes is equal to 384 bits.
The MAC address, which is an address assigned
to the physical device, is 48 bits, not bytes,
long.
By the way, an IP address, which we will learn
about soon, is 32 bits in length.
Let’s go to question 3.
What is the OUI of this MAC address?
E8BA.7011.2874.
A, E8Ba.
B, E8BA.70.
C, 7011.
Or D, E8BA.7011.
Pause the video to think about your answer.
the answer is B, E8BA.70.
The OUI (Organizationally Unique Identifier)
is the first half (or 24 bits) of a MAC address.
It is a unique value assigned to the maker
of the device.
The first half of this MAC address is E8BA.70,
so B is the correct answer.
Let’s go to question 4.
Which field of an Ethernet frame does a switch
use to populate its MAC address table?
A, preamble.
B, length.
C, Source MAC Address.
Or D, destination MAC address.
Pause the video to think about your answer.
the answer is C, Source MAC address.
Lets’ check.
The preamble is a series of 1s and 0s (7 bytes
of 10101010) which allows the receiving device
to synchronize its receive clock.
It is not used to populate the MAC address
table.
So A, preamble, is incorrect.
The Length field indicates the length of the
encapsulated packet.
It is not used to populate the MAC address
table.
So b, length, is incorrect.
Although this field does specify a MAC address,
it does not help the switch populate its MAC
address table.
So d, destination MAC address, is incorrect.
A switch uses the Source MAC Address field
to populate its MAC address table.
It associates the source MAC address with
the interface on which the frame was received.
This allows the switch to learn how to reach
other devices on the network.
So C, source MAC Address, is the correct answer.
Let’s go to question 5.
What kind of frame does a switch flood out
of all interfaces except the one it was received
on?
A, unknown unicast.
B, known unicast.
Or C, allcast.
Pause the video to think about your answer.
the answer is A, unknown unicast.
Let’s check.
A known unicast frame is a frame for which
the destination MAC address is already in
the switch’s MAC address table.
Since it already knows how to reach the destination,
there is no need to flood the frame.
So b, known unicast, is incorrect.
Allcast is not a type of Ethernet frame.
So c, allcast, is incorrect.
An unknown unicast frame is a frame destined
for a single host, however the switch doesn’t
know how to reach the destination so it floods
the frame out of all interfaces except the
one it was received on.
So A, unknown unicast, is the correct answer.
As usual, there are additional supplementary
materials to help you understand and remember
what you studied.
There is a pre-made deck of Anki flashcards
to help you review, check the link in the
description.
There will be a packet tracer lab, but I’ll
leave that for after Part 2 of Ethernet LAN
switching, so there won’t be a practice
lab for this video specifically.
Good luck with your studies!
Thank you for watching.
Please subscribe to the channel, like the
video, leave a comment, and share the video
with anyone else studying for the CCNA.
If you want to leave a tip, check the links
in the description.
I'm also a Brave verified publisher and accept
BAT, or Basic Attention Token, tips via the
Brave browser.
That's all for now.